---
title: "Lessons learned from a Two Tour Bicycle Tourer"
date: 2021-08-25T13:21:23+02:00
draft: false
cover: ""
---

It’s four am. I’m in the middle of Switzerland cowboy camping directly off a bicycle path in a small forested area. I’m laying on top of a tent, which we decided to use as a tarp as we were too tired and lazy to set it up, cursing the existence of god damn mosquitos, who buzzed around sounding like mini  jet engines taking off. I’m wearing long johns under my pants, wool socks, shoes, a long sleeve, a puffer jacket, a beanie, a gator covering my face, three tshirts on top of my legs forming a shit makeshift blanket, a tshirt wrapped around my feet because those needle nose pricks are biting me through my wool socks. I know. I know. I know. The solution to all of problems lies in setting up the tent directly underneath me, but instead I’m shivering, slapping at my face sporadically as supersonic jets are doing close range flybys of my eardrums, and my mind is devoid of any thoughts besides the bloodcurdling screaming begging me to scratch bloody the bites on my ankles, neck, and face. *Cue record scratch *Cue freeze frame. *Cue voiceover of my voice coming down from the sky, “well you’re probably wondering how I got here…”

I’ve come to realize that my adventures build on top of one another. At one point I had my gateway adventure, similar to when people say weed is a gateway drug on your path to shooting up black tar heroin with dirty needles in the alleyway behind your local CVS. Not sure when the hypothetical first puff of weed happened but I'm living an adventurous life where each adventure seems to inspire the next. Things I braved in one adventure come naturally down the road in another.

The inspiration for the freeze frame above goes back to April 2020. I’m in the backhouse of my childhood home quarantining after just having returned from overseas. I’m fighting off the depression of the possible reality that my travels are all over. Until the idea (great according to me, awful according to my parents) pops into my thick skull that I’ll keep the adventure going and ride my bicycle from Sacramento to San Diego. When my personal quarantine ended I waited. April came and went, and so did most of May. I’ll admit that the idea of attempting this ride alone was off putting with the hours of solitude pedaling followed by hours of solitude in the dark. Like damn… it’s already COVID and I’m going to go out of my way to see less people than I already am now. If I’m being honest I likely would have never gone unless there was someone to bring down the law. Now before the gavel struck, I spent these months chatting with friends and family about my grandiose plans making sure to casually invite them to come along while not actually expecting anyone to accept.

I had no clue that when I talked with Stuart, the retired dad of my childhood best friend who lives around the block, in Mid May that he would spend the next two weeks secretly training. While Stuart was putting rubber to asphalt riding hours and hours everyday shredding copious amounts of bicycle tires, I was a couch potato watching every possible cooking competition show on Netflix. While Stuart was replacing the grease he spun off his bicycle chain with his Speedy Gonzales pedaling, I’m making pints of ice cream disappear. Two weeks later it’s early June, and Stuart just cranked out 50 miles, made every spandexed Lance Armstrong wannabe eat his dust along the way, and crashed the entire Strava server before looking straight into the mirror nodding to himself while saying “I’m ready.” Immediately after he invites me over to his front lawn where he maniacally hits me with “I figure we can leave next week on the 11th.”

I spent one panicked filled week doing bicycle maintenance, researching how to stealth camp, and most importantly learning the exact science of how not to have excruciating ass pain from sitting on a bicycle seat allday everyday for 10 days straight. Hindsight 20-20 I wish I learned the exact science because nothing would have been more vital but sadly my bum and I suffered instead. I learned the hard way that hours of sitting on a bicycle molds your ass around the seat and when you finally move, your ass rips it’s way back to its natural voluptuous shape. My ass after five hours of sitting looked and felt like a brand new beach ball that needed to be blown up.  Once I'd get off the bike imagine  blowing up said beachball and hearing the internal material unstick and separate making loud popping noises. In the situation regarding my ass, it’s more realistic to replace blowing in the hole with screaming!

On June 11th we took off for the Amtrak station to catch the train to SF where we decided to start. Stuart famously attempted this ride twice before and the only thing from Sacramento to San Francisco is unbearable heat, dehydration, and misery. I was more than happy to start in SF. 

After a couple of beautiful days of the most incredible bicycle riding of my life, miles of accents followed by similar length descents that take a quarter of the time, ocean views, plus nights spent roughing it in hotel room queen sized beds, there we were day five in the middle of Big Sur at 6pm. No hotel room to ride to, no open campsites for miles and miles (COVID closed them all), with only one option left. The cowboy camp. We rode and rode until finding a suitable hidden away spot and it wasn’t just any spot. It was the perfect spot, set back in the trees, impossible to see from the road and right next to a running creek. It was the quintessential spot for stealth camping. Yet, I was completely freaked out that we were going to get caught, believing that some underpaid officer is randomly walking his flat ass deep into the forest in the middle of the night searching for illegal campers. Well one restless night of sleep later, we woke up with the sun and quickly packed up camp. With our luggage strapped down we dragged our bikes out of the forest to highway one and instantly got mocked by five #vanlife camper vans parked illegally overnight on the side of the highway with their contents peacefully asleep inside. Boy oh boii did I feel like a doofus for even losing a single second of sleep to worrying. 

Back to Switzerland, I’m in the middle of a three day bicycle tour from Luassane to Zurich with Marco and Alec whom I convinced that stealth/cowboy camping would be easy and great. I also informed them that their asses would hurt and there was nothing else they could do except to fall in love with the pain. Fortunately, they were game. With new confidence and new certainty that I’m not on the FBI’s top ten most wanted list with a posse of government agents out searching for me, our time camping was stress free but also basically sleep free. Sleep or not, I had officially grown from my last adventure.

To me the idea of a bicycle ride is no longer restricted to a quick day loop to a destination and then back to where you began. Additionally, I see sleeping as a human right and any small forest becomes a possible place to sleep for the night. Once I learned these lessons in California, I was able to bring them along with me to Switzerland and share them with my friends. I know I’ll be traveling for free, pedaling this voluptuous blown up beach ball ass of mine down some road to somewhere far away sometime soon.

Ps. Stuart made a fantastic video documenting our PCH1 ride. If interested, send me an email and I’ll share the link.
